**SISVSE: Surgical Scene Segmentation Using Semantic Image Synthesis with a Virtual Surgery Environment Dataset** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, and object detection tasks. It is used in the medical and robotics industries. 

The dataset consists of 23870 images with 532017 labeled objects belonging to 31 different classes including *liver*, *stomach*, *the_other_tissues*, and other: *pancreas*, *gauze*, *gallbladder*, *spleen*, *marylan_bipolar_forceps_head*, *harmonic_ace_body*, *harmonic_ace_head*, *the_other_instruments*, *maryland_bipolar_forceps_wrist*, *cadiere_forceps_head*, *curved_atraumatic_grasper_body*, *cadiere_forceps_wrist*, *cadiere_forceps_body*, *maryland_bipolar_forceps_body*, *curved_atraumatic_grasper_head*, *stapler_body*, *endotip*, *drain_tube*, *stapler_head*, *needle*, *suction_irrigation*, *medium_large_clip_applier_head*, *small_clip_applier_head*, *small_clip_applier_wrist*, *medium_large_clip_applier_wrist*, *small_clip_applier_body*, *medium_large_clip_applier_body*, and *specimenbag*.

Images in the SISVSE dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. All images are labeled (i.e. with annotations). There are 11 splits in the dataset: *manual_syn* (3400 images), *real_train_3* (3377 images), *real_train_1* (3375 images), *real_train_2* (3355 images), *sean_manual_syn* (3300 images), *sean_spade_translation* (1236 images), *domain_random_syn* (1236 images), *spade_domain_random_syn* (1190 images), *real_val_1* (1135 images), *real_val_2* (1133 images), and *real_val_3* (1133 images). Also, the objects contain ***translation*** and ***syn*** tags for *sean_spade_translation* split, ***supercategory*** image tag. Explore them in the supervisely labeling tool. The dataset was released in 2022 by the Hutom and Yonsei University College of Medicine.

Here is a visualized example for randomly selected sample classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/surgical-scene-segmentation-in-robotic-gastrectomy/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
